Another section done and we covered sorting specifically sorting algorithm in this section most of the
time when talking about sorting algorithms we're going to be talking about all of and log.
And we learned that there is a ton of sorting algorithms and we covered the main ones.
They get used more often.
If you're really excited about the topic and you find this interesting then well good for you.
You're one of few.
I encourage you to search different sorting algorithms but to review quicksort you want to use when
your average case performance matters more than the worst case performance because quicksort allows
us to sort in O and log in.
But in worst case an O oven squit merge sort.
On the other hand is great because it's always O of and log and it's also stable which means that it
always gives the same results in order if two items are the same although the space complexity is a
little bit higher than quicksort.
It's definitely a useful sort.
We also talked about insertion sort selection sort and bubble sort.
Those are fun when you're doing something quick and dirty and you want to just experiment around with
sorting.
But in real life you're not going to use them and most likely in real life you are using the framework
or languages or libraries sorting algorithm their advantage is that they're fairly easy to implement
in Cote and during the interview you might say something like this.
In those rare cases that they ask you to implement a sorting algorithm you'll say well because we have
a time constraint I like to use something naive and not efficient like bubble sort which is slow in
real life instead of implementing something like merge sort if it's OK with you because.
Because we can assume that sort is something that we can implement with a library or fairly easily with
documentation or you can say something like we can just use merge sort to divide and conquer the code
to make it more efficient.
And this way you show the interviewer that yes you can implement sorting like bubble sort but you also
know about things like Merceron to make it more efficient without having to actually implement it.
So by the end of this all I hope you now understand the tradeoffs where you can look at sorting algorithms
and decide based on their speed stability and their readability whether the input is already sorted
or nearly sorted.
How large is the input you can make the right decision on sorting.
I'll see in the next one.
Bob.